---
title: USA essay 1
type : NotList
---

When the time comes for individuals to receive a higher education, they will have reached the beginning of a new age in their reasoning capacity. It’s the time period in which we actually have the most passionate desire to learn, most intellectual capacity to develop analytical and critical thinking skills and most openmindedness to accept different viewpoints. Just as Martin Luther King Jr. pointed out, independent and critical thinking is the value that higher education will provide through a myriad of opportunities and exposure to different viewpoints. While these ideals would normally take decades to fully realize, higher education, which has already attracted the world’s best faculty, will make these ideals blossom at an accelerated rate. As a result, higher education has the capability to bring out the best of the people during a crucial time period by nurturing independent and critical minds and teaching methods to understand knowledge, so that those skills can be carried with the individuals for the rest of their lives.

　　  With that being said, character, an ideal that truly defines an individual for the rest of his/her life, is equally as important as knowledge and critical thinking in higher education. Bruce Lee put it eloquently: “Knowledge will give you power, but character respect.” Having a strong drive for learning complemented by a vast knowledge of topics is certainly very valuable, but without proper character development through exposure to the right values and different viewpoints, that individual will not be prepared for life beyond education. Simply put, higher education isn’t just about providing an individual with knowledge and promoting critical thinking, it has an equally important task, if not more so, to teach the individual on how to become a better human being. It is when an individual has the mind to explore new ideas, the knowledge needed to implement those ideas, and a heart to share those ideas to help improve the lives of the others, that higher education can be defined successful.

　　  When higher education is successful with providing knowledge, promoting critical thinking and helping build people’s character, it also provides individuals with a community in which they can carry for the rest of their lives. This is particularly precious in undergraduate-level education when most of the students will be living away from home for the first time and for an extended amount of time. Students will be free from the constraints that they were faced with in high school or at home. This freedom will allow students to bond with roommates and classmates who share similar levels of passion, knowledge, and character, truly bringing the best out of them. That’s the additional beauty of a successful higher education.

 USTC: [\#1](/meeting/highereducation/ustc1) [\#2](/meeting/highereducation/ustc2) [\#3](/meeting/highereducation/ustc3) [\#4](/meeting/highereducation/ustc4) [\#5](/meeting/highereducation/ustc5) [\#6](/meeting/highereducation/ustc6)  [\#7](/meeting/highereducation/ustc7)  [\#8](/meeting/highereducation/ustc8) [\#9](/meeting/highereducation/ustc9) [\#10](/meeting/highereducation/ustc10)

 USA: [\#1](/meeting/highereducation/usa1) [\#2](/meeting/highereducation/usa2) [\#3](/meeting/highereducation/usa3) [\#4](/meeting/highereducation/usa4) [\#5](/meeting/highereducation/usa5)  [\#6](/meeting/highereducation/usa6) [\#7](/meeting/highereducation/usa7)     
