---
title: USA essay 2
type: NotList
---

Education is the durable basis upon which we have built our modern society. Historically and currently, both the access to education and the quality of this education has had a significant impact on multiple levels. The education we receive as individuals is essential to forming our identities as human beings, and will affect ourselves as much as it has the potential to affect others. In the modern era, education is important at the personal and societal levels; personal education directly influences an individual’s contributions to advancing human civilization, which in turn shapes progress and development throughout the world. A higher education is significant for these several reasons; it can raise the world to a higher standard as easily at it can elevate an individual. We pursue a higher education across every country and all continents for this reason. The purpose of obtaining a higher education transcends our priorities of living securely and comfortably; it is a noble endeavor that benefits the world as much as it benefits the individual.

　　  Access to education is almost universally enshrined as a birthright. The Universal Declaration of Human Rights, created by the collective countries of the United Nations, expresses the need for education to be free at the elementary levels and equally accessible to all on the basis of merit at higher levels. Receiving education is significant to attaining the goals that humanity wishes to achieve: through education, it is possible to eradicate poverty, war, disease, and all forms of human suffering. An individual has the potential to remove themselves or others from these situations by obtaining a higher education. Although there will be millions of people who will never personally experience the depths of human suffering, they can practically alleviate these issues with a higher education. Accomplished through scientific advances and an improved understanding of the natural world, the products of an education will lift humanity towards a brighter future. As human beings, this is one of the reasons why we seek a higher education- not only for ourselves, but for the sake of every single one of us.

USTC: [\#1](/meeting/highereducation/ustc1) [\#2](/meeting/highereducation/ustc2) [\#3](/meeting/highereducation/ustc3) [\#4](/meeting/highereducation/ustc4) [\#5](/meeting/highereducation/ustc5) [\#6](/meeting/highereducation/ustc6)  [\#7](/meeting/highereducation/ustc7)  [\#8](/meeting/highereducation/ustc8) [\#9](/meeting/highereducation/ustc9) [\#10](/meeting/highereducation/ustc10)

USA: [\#1](/meeting/highereducation/usa1) [\#2](/meeting/highereducation/usa2) [\#3](/meeting/highereducation/usa3) [\#4](/meeting/highereducation/usa4) [\#5](/meeting/highereducation/usa5)  [\#6](/meeting/highereducation/usa6) [\#7](/meeting/highereducation/usa7)   
