---
title: USA essay 3
---
Living in the United States and in a privileged household has many times made me take what I have for granted, including the opportunity to go to college. I have always assumed that I would go to college, receive a good education, make a lot of money, and live a happy life. As I got older, I realized that not everyone had the same opportunities that I had and that I had to receive a college education not only to sustain myself, but also to help others. Visiting India and seeing all the kids begging at our car windows or working on the streets and living in huts instead of going to school made me realize how foolish and selfish I had been thinking that my and my family’s well-being was all that mattered. As I started to see, first-hand, while serving food to the homeless on the streets of Manhattan, the poverty and sadness that many people faced because of their lack of education, my life goals became a bit clearer. I wanted to go to college to eventually become a Psychiatrist so that I could make enough money to not only support my own family, but also to help in the education and health of those in poorer countries and even those struggling in the United States. I feel that the real purpose of higher education is to serve others and that to not do so is a selfish mistake. I want to continue to serve underprivileged people in greater and greater capacities so that I can make some kind of difference in their lives and in my own as well. As a Psychiatrist, I want to try to alleviate the pain of some of the millions with mental illnesses in developing countries who are many times ignored. I realized, through the many people I have heard about and known in my life, that happiness doesn’t truly come from expensive things and I hope to die one day knowing that my education paid off in smiles on people's faces instead of millions in my bank account.

USTC: [\#1](/meeting/highereducation/ustc1) [\#2](/meeting/highereducation/ustc2) [\#3](/meeting/highereducation/ustc3) [\#4](/meeting/highereducation/ustc4) [\#5](/meeting/highereducation/ustc5) [\#6](/meeting/highereducation/ustc6)  [\#7](/meeting/highereducation/ustc7)  [\#8](/meeting/highereducation/ustc8) [\#9](/meeting/highereducation/ustc9) [\#10](/meeting/highereducation/ustc10)

USA: [\#1](/meeting/highereducation/usa1) [\#2](/meeting/highereducation/usa2) [\#3](/meeting/highereducation/usa3) [\#4](/meeting/highereducation/usa4) [\#5](/meeting/highereducation/usa5)  [\#6](/meeting/highereducation/usa6) [\#7](/meeting/highereducation/usa7)   
