---
title: USA essay 5
type: NotList
---

Many consider the purpose of higher education is to enable an individual to obtain a well-paying job. For most of the people in Ward Melville, at least, college has been an expectation for most our lives, and is the logical next step in our entry into young adulthood. College also serves as a transitional period as young adults learn how to be self-sufficient. Many people have been dependent on their parents for much of their childhood, and college forces them to take on responsibilities that they had previously not had.

　　　 The sole function of college should not be career preparation, however. The primary purpose of higher education should be to allow students to gain a greater understanding of humanity and the world around them. This further education should be equipping students with the ability to properly think and understand the world around them, and prepare them for whatever trials their life may present. College was fundamentally designed for people to broaden their horizons and experiment in new areas with the aim of becoming more well-rounded and developed. The purpose of college should be learning for the sake of learning. However, given the incredibly high cost of college, it is difficult to remedy this idea with the knowledge that if one does not find a well-paying career following college, they will suffocate under massive debt. Thus, for many, education is simply a necessary step in the process of building a career.

　　　 Personally, I hope to get out of college both preparation for a career and the opportunity to learn about things that I am passionate, regardless of whether they are necessary. Through my college search process, I’ve prioritized looking at prestigious liberal arts colleges that will provide me with the opportunity not only to have a successful future, but the opportunity to develop into a more complex person. The United States is a country with a great emphasis of individualism, and for me especially I wouldn’t be able to tolerate classes with hundreds of students teaching nothing but the bare minimum with no interaction or opportunities to experiment. Grades have been brought to the forefront of the educational experience, and personal development has taken a side seat in lieu of the practical need to finish university as quickly as possible to avoid any economic burdens. The purpose of higher education is to get a job, while the purpose should be to create more open and creative individuals.　

USTC: [\#1](/meeting/highereducation/ustc1) [\#2](/meeting/highereducation/ustc2) [\#3](/meeting/highereducation/ustc3) [\#4](/meeting/highereducation/ustc4) [\#5](/meeting/highereducation/ustc5) [\#6](/meeting/highereducation/ustc6)  [\#7](/meeting/highereducation/ustc7)  [\#8](/meeting/highereducation/ustc8) [\#9](/meeting/highereducation/ustc9) [\#10](/meeting/highereducation/ustc10)

USA: [\#1](/meeting/highereducation/usa1) [\#2](/meeting/highereducation/usa2) [\#3](/meeting/highereducation/usa3) [\#4](/meeting/highereducation/usa4) [\#5](/meeting/highereducation/usa5)  [\#6](/meeting/highereducation/usa6) [\#7](/meeting/highereducation/usa7)   
