---
title: USA essay 7
type: NotList
---
“Education is the most powerful weapon which you can use to change the world.”
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　- Nelson Mandela

　　  Education. A subject which most students are far too familiar with, enduring long hours of tedious studying, facing a seemingly insurmountable workload which never quite seems to end. While certain students may state that school offers valuable knowledge which would benefit them in the future, many would prefer to end the schooling as early as possible. This is a common sentiment, which should be corrected, as education is perhaps one of the most valuable assets, which a person can gain. The ability to gain a higher education is not one offered to everyone. Many people can only dream of receiving a higher education. And they dream of this because of the enormous amount of benefits that education leads to. Not only does it provide you with the skills necessary to enter a career, but it also teaches you how to handle some of life's problems in a safe environment.

　　  A higher education is critical to the advancement of the human race, as we are constantly learning more and more. But in order to continue work in specific fields, there needs to be young minds who are willing to grapple with problems that have been giving the last generation difficulty. The progression of mankind is very important, and can only be achieved if more people get a higher degree of education. Neil Degrasse Tyson even stated the benefits of people getting a degree in the sciences as “helping humanity”.

　　  The main purpose of a higher education is to benefit those who are inspired to do more, those who wish to change the world, and for those who feel a desire to leave their mark on this earth. This is calling is not for everyone, but it is available to all who wish to try in this country. According to Lawrence Katz, an economist from Harvard, there is a clear, positive correlation between a person's income and their level of education. It’s simple; those who get a higher education get more money. The unfortunate fact is that many people do not apply themselves in order to get a higher education and end up working as unskilled laborers. Due to the fact that these laborers require no sort of background or training, they are paid little to nothing, otherwise known as minimum wage. This then could potentially leave a person no other resort but to take on two jobs, which would be incredibly exhausting. Not only this, but if you ever have children, you are perpetuating the cycle of poverty by not being able to give them the resources necessary in order to succeed. This is one of the reasons why it is very difficult to change the class which you were born into. But, through hard work and perseverance, higher education can liberate you from the bondage of poverty.

USTC: [\#1](/meeting/highereducation/ustc1) [\#2](/meeting/highereducation/ustc2) [\#3](/meeting/highereducation/ustc3) [\#4](/meeting/highereducation/ustc4) [\#5](/meeting/highereducation/ustc5) [\#6](/meeting/highereducation/ustc6)  [\#7](/meeting/highereducation/ustc7)  [\#8](/meeting/highereducation/ustc8) [\#9](/meeting/highereducation/ustc9) [\#10](/meeting/highereducation/ustc10)

USA: [\#1](/meeting/highereducation/usa1) [\#2](/meeting/highereducation/usa2) [\#3](/meeting/highereducation/usa3) [\#4](/meeting/highereducation/usa4) [\#5](/meeting/highereducation/usa5)  [\#6](/meeting/highereducation/usa6) [\#7](/meeting/highereducation/usa7)        
