---
title:  USTC essay 10
type: NotList
---
What is higher education? Education is a tree shaking a tree, a cloud promoting a cloud, and a soul awakening another soul (K.Jaspers, 1977). The best education is to attempt nothing and accomplish nothing: students do not see the occurrence of education, which has a real impact on their hearts and further assists students to fulfill their potential. This is the best education in the world (Jean-Jacques Rousseau, 1757). What do students learn from teachers? As an educator, they should not only teach students knowledge, teach students to exercise, but it is important to teach students how to behave. In education, all should be based on the educator's personality, because only personality can affect personality, and only personality can form personality (by Ushinski).

　  I agree with the above ideas, which are some famous sayings of famous educationists and philosophers. Their sayings mean that teachers are daily and hourly exercising an invisible and formative influence on the pupils' character. Certainly, on the other hand, it is also important to criticize and encourage students properly, which can assist students to be conscious of their mistakes and to overcome difficulties. When I was an elementary school student of grade two, I was not able to complete the summer homework before the new semester. My teacher told me that a slow sparrow should make an early start. The earnest teachings touched me great in my entire student age. Maybe I was not clever enough, and even a little lazy in my childhood. If my teacher did not point out my shortcomings in good season, I don’t know what my future will be. It is a profound lesson for me.

　  In addition to criticism and encouragement to correct bad habits and to build confidence, education must guide children to go to the road independently. Just as the old saying goes, give a man a fish and you feed him for a day, while teach a man how to fish and you feed him for a lifetime. Educator should cultivate students’ ability to think independently, work independently, and participate in society. Students should have the ability to study independently, which will benefit them for a whole life.　

　  Last but not least, the soul of Education is to train creativity of students, so the cultivation of children's imagination is very important. Imagination is more important than knowledge, and imagination sums up everything in the world. It promotes progress, but knowledge is limited. It is the art of education to effectively stimulate the students’ inquiry. The most exquisite educational art of teachers is to ask students to ask questions, and give self-inquiry answers.　

　  In short, as an educator, example is better than precept, and it is also necessary to give appropriate criticism and encouragement. As a student, we should have the ability to study independently, identify and solve problems.

USTC: [\#1](/meeting/highereducation/ustc1) [\#2](/meeting/highereducation/ustc2) [\#3](/meeting/highereducation/ustc3) [\#4](/meeting/highereducation/ustc4) [\#5](/meeting/highereducation/ustc5) [\#6](/meeting/highereducation/ustc6)  [\#7](/meeting/highereducation/ustc7)  [\#8](/meeting/highereducation/ustc8) [\#9](/meeting/highereducation/ustc9) [\#10](/meeting/highereducation/ustc10)

USA: [\#1](/meeting/highereducation/usa1) [\#2](/meeting/highereducation/usa2) [\#3](/meeting/highereducation/usa3) [\#4](/meeting/highereducation/usa4) [\#5](/meeting/highereducation/usa5)  [\#6](/meeting/highereducation/usa6) [\#7](/meeting/highereducation/usa7)        
