---
title:  USTC essay 03
---

With the rapid growth of economy and fast development of society, higher education has become increasingly important in our daily life.
　  
　 In my opinion, higher education is both a platform for inspiring wisdom of individuals and an engine that drives development of society.In the first place, higher education is an irreplaceable platform for inspiring wisdom of individuals.It is a place where students could freely learn the most fundamental and the most useful knowledge and skills,a place where intelligent minds could contact with each other, and a place where an individual could explore both the outside world and his/her inner mind. University, one of the most common kinds of higher education, offers lectures covering different fields and ensures that students could learn systematically and completely.For example, during the four years of study in University of Science and Technology of China, students majoring in geophysics must take courses of mathematics, physics and computer in addition to their special courses. These diverse courses provide a firm foothold in science for the students, and enable the students to solve different problems in both scientific research and other works.

　  As another vital aspect, higher education is also an essential engine for generating economic growth, improving living level and driving development of society. Firstly, society consists of individuals. The more educated and skillful the individuals are, the more energetic the society would be. Each year, higher education pours millions of educated graduates into society, greatly increasing social production efficiency and generating economic growth. Secondly, higher education is a key approach for turning knowledge into productive forces. Teachers and scientists, armed with knowledge and technology, are in advantage of turning what they know into what they could do. Thirdly, higher education is also the breeding ground for new ideas and new technologies. Ideas could be interchanged and spread among intelligent and creative minds, during which new ideas and new knowledge are created. Such new ideas drive the development of society.

　  However, although China has made great progress in higher education in the last decades, it faces many challenges in higher education. Firstly, due to the expansion of higher education, it becomes increasingly hard to provide enough jobs for millions of new graduates each year. Many graduates have to choose jobs that do not match their specialties to make a living. Secondly, the chances to get higher education are different for students from different provinces of China. For example, the students in Beijing are much easier to get into university than the students from the other provinces. Thirdly and most importantly, higher education in China, which focuses too much on the scores of the students, ignores cultivating the ability of the students for critical thinking. Some students are not able to think logically and independently.

　  In summary, higher education is not only a platform for inspiring wisdom of individuals, but also an engine that drives development of society. In China, many challenges of higher education remain to be solved.

USTC: [\#1](/meeting/highereducation/ustc1) [\#2](/meeting/highereducation/ustc2) [\#3](/meeting/highereducation/ustc3) [\#4](/meeting/highereducation/ustc4) [\#5](/meeting/highereducation/ustc5) [\#6](/meeting/highereducation/ustc6)  [\#7](/meeting/highereducation/ustc7)  [\#8](/meeting/highereducation/ustc8) [\#9](/meeting/highereducation/ustc9) [\#10](/meeting/highereducation/ustc10)

USA: [\#1](/meeting/highereducation/usa1) [\#2](/meeting/highereducation/usa2) [\#3](/meeting/highereducation/usa3) [\#4](/meeting/highereducation/usa4) [\#5](/meeting/highereducation/usa5)  [\#6](/meeting/highereducation/usa6) [\#7](/meeting/highereducation/usa7)        
